Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies are changing life sciences, such as Clinic Microbiology and Molecular Epidemiology. The current capacity for fast microbial genomes sequencing promises to revolutionize these areas. In industrial or hospital environments, genomes’ phylogenetic analyses, are used to detect epidemics (e.g. food industry), guide vaccine development whilst making sure the targets are preserved in all of the bacterial population, or for checking antimicrobial resistance, which is a rising concern.

PHYLOViZ is a desktop application for processing, analysing and visualizing molecular typing data that was released in 2012. In 2016, an online version of PHYLOViZ was released, however in this area not all users are comfortable submitting their files for remote processing. In that same year, PHYLOViZ 2.0 was released, adding new functionalities to the previous desktop version. Since the applications use different technologies there is an increased effort to maintain both.

The developed project offers a web application also available as a cross-platform desktop version which "encapsulates" the web application locally, thus sharing the same code. It is structured in modules which obey rules, so that more features may be added later, such as new processing algorithms.
The web and desktop applications of the project both provide functionalities from the previously referred applications, such as listing and loading datasets from PubMLST, loading datasets and ancillary data from a file, processing datasets into a Minimum Spanning Tree (MST) using goeBURST algorithm with Prim or Kruskal’s algorithm, rendering an MST using Force-Directed Layout or Radial Static Layout and cutting the rendered MST, presenting ancillary data of each node and creating, saving and loading
user projects.

Aside from those, they also provide new functionalities, such as loading datasets and ancillary data from an URL, processing datasets into an MST using goeBURST algorithm with Boruvka’s algorithm, rendering an MST using GrapeTree Static Layout with node collapsing and importing, exporting and sharing user’s projects.